---

copyright:
  years:  2023
lastupdated: "2023-10-31"

keywords: security, privacy, foundation models, prompts

subcollection: watson-code-assistant

---

{{site.data.keyword.attribute-definition-list}}


# Security and privacy for foundation models
{: #wca-privacy}

Your work with foundation models is secure and private, in the same way that all your work on {{site.data.keyword.wca_full}} is secure and private.

Foundation models that you interact with through {{site.data.keyword.wca_full_notm}} are hosted in {{site.data.keyword.cloud}}. Your data is not sent to any third-party or open source platforms.

The foundation model prompts that you create and engineer in the Prompt Lab or send by using the API are accessible only by you. Your prompts are used only by you and are submitted only to models you choose. Your prompt text is not accessible or used by IBM or any other person or organization.

You control whether prompts, model choices, and prompt engineering parameter settings are saved. When saved, your data is stored in a dedicated {{site.data.keyword.cloud_notm}} Object Storage bucket that is associated with your project.

Data that is stored in your project storage bucket is encrypted at rest and in motion. You can delete your stored data at any time.

## Privacy and security of saved work
{: #saved-work}

How saved work is managed differs based on the asset type that you choose to save:

- **Prompt asset**: The current prompt text, model, and prompt engineering parameters are saved as a prompt asset and stored in the {{site.data.keyword.cloud_notm}} Object Storage bucket that is associated with your project. Prompt assets are retained until they are deleted or changed by you. When autosave is on, if you open a saved prompt and change the text, the text in the saved prompt asset is replaced.
- **Prompt session asset**: A prompt session includes the prompt text, model, and prompt engineering parameters for up to 500 submitted prompts. Prompt session assets are stored in the project storage bucket and are retained for 30 days.
- **Notebook asset**: Your prompt, model, and prompt engineering parameters are formatted as Python code and stored as a notebook asset in the project storage bucket.

Only people with Admin or Editor role access to the project or the project storage bucket can view saved assets. You control who can access your project and its associated Cloud Object Storage bucket.

For more information about asset security, see [Securing your data in {{site.data.keyword.wca_full_notm}}](/docs/watsonx-code-assistant?topic=watsonx-code-assistant-mng-data).

For more information about managing project access, see [Set up {{site.data.keyword.wcaal_full_notm}} in IBM Cloud](/docs-draft/watsonx-code-assistant?topic=watsonx-code-assistant-cloud-setup-a) or [Managing IAM access for {{site.data.keyword.wca_full_notm}} for Z](/docs/watsonx-code-assistant?topic=watsonx-code-assistant-wca-iam).
 .

## Ownership of your content and foundation model output
{: #ownership}

Content that you upload into {{site.data.keyword.wca_full_notm}} is yours.

IBM does not use the content that you upload to {{site.data.keyword.wca_full_notm}} or the output generated by a foundation model to further train or improve any IBM developed models.

IBM does not claim to have any ownership rights to any foundation model outputs. You remain solely responsible for your content and the output of any foundation model.

// Generated by WCA for GP
